---
"id": "104"
"title": "It was narrated that Hudhaifah said:"
"date": "2026-02-13T18:31:12"
"author": "عَلَىٰ نَهجِ السَّلَفِ  Upon the path of the Salaf"
"quotedAuthor": "Yaḥyā and Sheikh Aḥmad Waṣābī would lead extremely long tarāwīḥ prayers;\
  \ especially in the last ten nights—they would be awake almost the entire night."
"topics":
- "Aqeedah"
- "Du'a"
- "Hadith"
- "Scholars"
- "Seerah"
- "Tafsir"
- "The Salaf"
"type": "message"
"edited": "2026-03-19T19:59:28"
---

It was narrated that Hudhaifah said:

"I prayed with the Prophet ﷺ one night. He started to recite Al-Baqarah and I thought, 'he will bow when he reaches one hundred,' but he carried on. I thought, 'he is going to recite the whole surah in one rak'ah,' but he carried on. He started to recite An-Nisā' and recited (the whole surah), then he started to recite Āli ʿImran and recited (the whole surah), reciting slowly. When he reached a verse that spoke of glorifying Allāh سبحانه وتعالى, he glorified Him. When he reached a verse that spoke of supplication, he made supplication. When he reached a verse that spoke of seeking refuge with Allāh, he sought refuge with Him. Then he bowed and said: 'Subhana Rabbiyal-Azim.(Glory be to my Lord Almighty)', and he bowed for almost as long as he had stood. Then he raised his head and said: 'Sami Allāhu liman hamidah (Allāh hears those who praise Him)', and he stood for almost as long as he had bowed. Then he prostrated and started to say: Subhana Rabbiyal-'Ala (Glory be to my Lord Most High),' and he prostrated for almost as long as he had bowed.'"

[Sunan an-Nasā'i 1664]

[Brief clarification of this ḥadīth ](https://t.me/khawaaaaatir/99)

> Our Shaykha, Oum ʿAbdillah Al-Briṭāniyyah حفظها الله shared with us stories of Ramaḍān in Dammāj. So many people travelled to Dammāj to simply experience the tarāwīḥ prayers there, as Dammāj had become famous for its tarāwīḥ prayers.

Shaykh Yaḥyā and Sheikh Aḥmad Waṣābī would lead extremely long tarāwīḥ prayers; especially in the last ten nights—they would be awake almost the entire night.

In the last ten nights, they would complete the Qurʾān more than once. The prayers would begin around 9:00 p.m. and end just fifteen minutes before the Fajr adhān.

They would start straight after ‘Ishā’, and the shuyūkh would recite long portions of Qurʾān—continuously.

The first two rak‘ahs alone could last an hour and a half. The rukū‘ and sujūd were extremely long — you really had to be physically fit. Each sujūd could last at least ten minutes, without exaggeration — to the point where they would stretch their arms out and then bring them back in again.

The exertion is what makes it beautiful.

You may have thought, “these people only exist in the past.” However, you don’t have to be confined to the generation of the people of today. Elevate yourself and connect with the people of the past. Read the biographies of the salaf and live with them vicariously.

The Prophet ﷺ told us “**it is the habit of the righteous who came before you.**”

[Sunan al-Tirmidhi‌ 3549]

So join their ranks. Compare yourself to those who are better.

In every generation we have them — people who are not from this era, people who strive in worship, people who do not busy themselves with distractions but are focused on preparing to meet their Lord.

The Prophet ﷺ would pray and pray till his feet would swell.

This is the Sunnah.

Make this your goal.

You only have one life.

Don’t measure yourself by the standard of the lazy when the standard of the righteous is before you.

Strive, even when it is hard.

Pray, even if you are tired.

Remember this life is simply an investment for the next. How much do you wish to invest into it? How badly do you want it?

And in the end, it will be worth it.

إن شاء الله تعالى

> - Umm Muṣʿab al-Ghāniyyah al-Almāniyyah غفر الله لها