---
"id": !!int "136"
"title": "Imām Muqbil رحمه الله was asked:"
"date": "2026-03-21T03:59:01"
"author": "عَلَىٰ نَهجِ السَّلَفِ  Upon the path of the Salaf"
"quotedAuthor": "Muqbil رحمه الله was asked:"
"topics":
- "Fiqh"
- "Hadith"
- "Innovation"
- "Scholars"
- "Seerah"
- "Trials"
"type": "message"
"edited": "2026-06-06T01:58:39"
---

Imām Muqbil رحمه الله was asked:

**Is a Muslim obligated to follow a specific madhhab? Please clarify with evidence.**

He answered:

"A Muslim is not obligated to follow a specific madhhab. Rather, adhering to a specific madhhab is considered an innovation. Allāh, Glorified and Exalted, says in His Noble Book:

*“Follow what has been sent down to you from your Lord, and do not follow allies besides Him. Little do you remember.” [Al-A‘rāf: 3]*

And He, Glorified and Exalted, says:

*“If you dispute over anything, refer it to Allāh and the Messenger, if you truly believe in Allāh and the Last Day.” [An-Nisā’: 59]*

And He, Glorified and Exalted, says:

*“And in anything over which you differ—the decision thereof is with Allāh.” [ash-Shūrā: 10]*

I praise Allāh that the youth today no longer turn except to the Book and the Sunnah. And we praise Allāh that the environment has become easier, for there was a time when no one could say that he was not committed to a madhhab. These madhhabs have stirred up trials and enmity among the Muslims. If you read in al-Bidāyah wan-Nihāyah, you will find disputes between the Ḥanbalīs and the Shāfi‘īs, between the Ḥanbalīs and the Ḥanafīs, and between the Shāfi‘īs and the Ḥanafīs, and other such conflicts—along with fighting and killing that occurred due to adhering to madhhabs.

Allāh, Glorified and Exalted, says:

*“Whatever the Messenger gives you, take it; and whatever he forbids you from, refrain from it.” [Al-Hashr: 7]*"

__

**He also said:**

"As for blind following (taqlīd), my brothers, it has brought great affliction upon the people. How is that? The people abandoned (the way of) the Companions, then they began taking the statements of the four Imāms. After that, they took the statements of the followers of the four Imāms, and then after that, they took the statements of the followers of the followers of the followers."

**And he said:**

"Aḥmad bin Ḥanbal رحمه الله تعالى, al-Imām ash-Shāfiʿī and al-Imām Mālik and other imāms are not pillars from the pillars of the religion. Rather, they are imāms who are followed (i.e., taken as examples). Especially Imām ash-Shāfiʿī, Imām Aḥmad, and Imām Mālik—may Allāh reward them with good on behalf of Islām. We do not do without their books, but we do not practice taqlīd—we do not blindly follow."

[abridged. ](https://www.muqbel.net/fatwa.php?fatwa_id=931)

> Tr: Umm ʿAbdirraḥmān as-Sūdāniyyah