---
"id": "190"
"title": "A student of Ibn Taymiyyah whom he would prepare answers for:"
"date": "2026-04-17T22:36:36"
"author": "عَلَىٰ نَهجِ السَّلَفِ  Upon the path of the Salaf"
"quotedAuthor": "Taqiyy ad-Dīn Ibn Taymiyyah"
"topics":
- "Knowledge"
- "Marriage"
- "Parents"
- "Scholars"
- "The Salaf"
- "Women"
"type": "message"
"edited": "2026-04-22T15:34:40"
---

**A student of Ibn Taymiyyah whom he would prepare answers for:

Umm Zaynab Fāṭimah al-Baghdādiyyah (born 640 AH – died 724 AH)**

*Ibn Kathīr رحمه الله said:*

“The righteous, devout, and worshipful Shaykha — Umm Zaynab Fāṭimah bint ʿAbbās ibn Abī al-Fatḥ ibn Muḥammad al-Baghdādiyyah — was among the virtuous and knowledgeable women.

She enjoined good and forbade evil, and she would confront the Aḥmadiyyah (a deviant sect) regarding their practice of forming friendships with women and handsome youths, and she would condemn their states and the states of other innovators. She used to do in this regard what many men were unable to do.

She would attend the gatherings of Shaykh Taqiyy ad-Dīn Ibn Taymiyyah, from whom she benefited in that and other matters.

I heard Shaykh Taqiyy ad-Dīn praise her, describing her as virtuous and knowledgeable, and mentioning that she had memorized much — or most — of al-Mughnī, and that he would prepare himself for her because of the abundance of her questions, the excellence of her inquiries, and her quick understanding.

She was the one who supervised the completion of Qur’ān memorization for many women — among them the mother of my wife, ʿĀ’ishah bint Ṣiddīq, the wife of Shaykh Jamāl ad-Dīn al-Mizzī — and she was also the one who taught their daughter, my wife, Amat ar-Raḥīm Zaynab.

May Allāh have mercy on them and honor them with His mercy and His Paradise. Āmīn.”

> Al-Bidāyah wa an-Nihāyah (vol. 18, p. 140)

Tr: Umm ʿAbdirraḥmān as-Sūdāniyyah

*_*____

Index: https://t.me/uponthepathofsalaf/166