---
"id": "69"
"title": "ليس كل العلم ينشر | Not every knowledge should be spread"
"date": "2026-01-25T12:44:25"
"author": "عَلَىٰ نَهجِ السَّلَفِ  Upon the path of the Salaf"
"quotedAuthor": "Mālik mentioned that he has many aḥadīth which he did not speak about\
  \ nor did he relay it to anyone else—this is because he disliked any speech with\
  \ no action that comes from it."
"topics":
- "Knowledge"
"type": "message"
"edited": "2026-01-30T00:29:08"
---

**ليس كل العلم ينشر | Not every knowledge should be spread**

When we share knowledge (of our dīn) we must look at the harms and benefits that will come about—**and this requires more knowledge**.

Some masāʾil should be left from speaking about to the public. It is from ʿilm that you look to who you are speaking and addressing.

As an example, praying in shoes is from the Sunnah. However, mentioning this to the general public without ḥikmah may lead to harm. People may begin praying in the masjid with dirty shoes, which could cause others to be repelled from coming to the masjid and say, “They claim to follow the Sunnah, yet they dirty the house of Allāh.”

There is a genuine concern when it comes to spreading knowledge and fear of concealing it [*Sūrah al-Baqarah:159*]; but the ʿulemāʾ placed a criterion on spreading knowledge—between not spreading every bit of it and not withholding all of it.

In Islām, prevention of corruption is given precedence over bringing benefit to prevent corruption being spread out by way of this (even if there is benefit in sharing it).

Ash-Shāṭibī رحمه الله said: “Not every knowledge should be spread/broadcasted. Even if it is true.”

He also added that Imām Mālik mentioned that he has many aḥadīth which he did not speak about nor did he relay it to anyone else—this is because he disliked any speech with no action that comes from it.

“وكان يكره الكلام فيما ليس تحته عمل"

[الموافقات ١٧١:٥]

The criterion the ʿulemāʾ say to use is to present the issue to the Shari’ah. If it is sound according to its scale, then look at its context regarding the state and era of the people—this requires ʿilm and ḥikmah; wisdom which can only be obtained by experience.

There is also the issue of **how** the knowledge is shared—the *way* in which it is conveyed; which is another discussion.

> An excerpt from my notes of الطريق إلى النبوغ العلمي taught by Ustādh Abū Hudhayfa Sāmī حفظه الله

~ أم مصعب الغانية الألمانية