---
"id": !!int "213"
"title": "\U0001F4CD Important advice for sisters attending lectures via livestreams"
"date": "2026-04-23T18:39:21"
"author": "عَلَىٰ نَهجِ السَّلَفِ  Upon the path of the Salaf"
"quotedAuthor": !!null "null"
"topics":
- "Character"
- "Hadith"
- "Trials"
- "Women"
"type": "message"
---

📍 **Important advice for sisters attending lectures via livestreams**

Some sisters, as mentioned [here](https://t.me/Links2Lessons/4491), may recieve messages from men due to their accounts being easily found in livestream lists. The goal of this post isn't only to avoid receiving messages, rather the goal is to avoid fitnah and close any doors of evil.

I have attached visual steps on how to make a public channel to use when joining livestreams in order to keep your account private and to preserve your modesty بإذن الله.

1️⃣ Make a new channel, not a group.

2️⃣ Name it something plain and simple, a mere dot could suffice. I advise our sisters not to beautify this channel and to strive to keep it as unassuming as possible.

3️⃣ Make sure the channel is public, as if it is private you will not be able to attend livestreams with it. As for the channel link, it can simply be a mix of random letters.

Remember, the goal is to attend the livestreams privately and without drawing attention to the channel to avoid fitnah.

**How do I join with my new channel?**

In the corner of any livestream you join there will be three dots in the corner, then you will see a button that says "Display me as.."

Press on it, and choose the new public channel you made.

Note: You shouldn't have to do this every single time, but make sure to check if you're displayed as your private account or your public channel often just in case.

We ask Allāh to grant the Muslim women modesty and ḥayāʾ in all their affairs