---
"id": !!int "228"
"title": "What Are the Means That Save One from the Torment of the Grave?"
"date": "2026-04-28T13:59:16"
"author": "عَلَىٰ نَهجِ السَّلَفِ  Upon the path of the Salaf"
"quotedAuthor": "al-Qayyim** رحمه الله says: Its answer is also from two aspects:\
  \ a general one and a detailed one."
"topics":
- "Death"
- "Repentance"
- "Seerah"
"type": "message"
---

**What Are the Means That Save One from the Torment of the Grave?**

**Ibn al-Qayyim** رحمه الله says: Its answer is also from two aspects: a general one and a detailed one.

As for the general: **It is to avoid those causes that bring about the punishment of the grave. **

Among the most beneficial of them is that a person, when he intends to sleep, sits for an hour for the sake of Allāh, in which he takes account of himself regarding what he has lost and gained during his day. Then he renews for himself a sincere repentance between him and Allāh and sleeps upon that repentance, resolving not to return to the sin when he wakes up. **He does this every night.**

If he dies that night, he dies upon repentance; and if he wakes, he wakes ready for action [i.e. acts of worship], delighted that his time has been delayed so that he may meet his Lord as well as make up what he has missed.

There is nothing more beneficial for a servant than this sleep—especially if he follows it with remembrance of Allāh and practicing the Sunan reported from the Messenger of Allāh ﷺ at the time of sleep, until sleep overtakes him. For whoever Allāh intends good for, He grants him success in that. And there is no power except with Allāh.

Source: Ar-Rūḥ (p.79 – ط العلمية)

(p. 231 – ط عطاءات العلم)

Tr: Umm Tamīm aṣ-Ṣūmāliyyah